this K&N air intake system is designed
to increase power and acceleration by
reducing restriction in the intake path
can n 69 - 5 308 TS air intake this 2012
and 2013 Kia Soul with a 2.0 liter
engine the 69 - 5 308 TS air intake is
not legal for highway use in California
or other states adopting California
emission standards check KN filters com
for an up to date list of models this
air intake fits and for a list of other
carb adoption States
canon power testing showed an estimated
power gain of 5 horsepower at 5600 and
64 RPM with the 69 - 5 308 TS air intake
installed on a 2012 Kia Soul with a 2.0
liter engine actual results will vary
depending on the condition of the
vehicle mileage weather and other
variables
with the air intake installed we ran the
vehicle on the dyno to test the sound
comparison verses the stock intake
the intake system includes components
that have been designed or matched to
the needs of these vehicles to produce a
safe horsepower increase
detailed installation instructions are
included with this kit the tools needed
for this install are shown
turn off the ignition and disconnect the
negative battery cable pull up the
engine cover and remove it from the
engine release the spring clamp securing
the crankcase vent hose to the valve
cover port and then disconnect the
crankcase vent hose from the valve cover
remove the two plastic screws securing
the fresh air intake scoop and then
remove the clips lift up the fresh air
scoop and remove it from the vehicle
loosen the hose clamp securing the
intake tube to the throttle body unlatch
the two upper airbox retaining clips
remove the upper airbox from the vehicle
K&N recommends that customers do not
discard factory air intake
remove the two bolts securing the lower
air box to the vehicle and then remove
the lower airbox from the vehicle
remove the airbox mounting grommet and
then remove the innermost ground strap
bolt install the two one-inch rubber
mounted studs one will screw into the
threaded hole vacated by the ground
strap bolt and the other will thread on
to the unoccupied stud on the frame rail
install the 1/2 inch rubber mounted stud
onto the air box mounting grommet
location using the provided fender
washers on both sides of the mounting
bracket install the provided hump hose
onto the throttle body and secure with
the provided hose clamp
install the filter adapter into the heat
shield and secure with the provided
hardware
install the provided edge trim onto the
heat shield some trimming of the edge
trim will be necessary
install the provided L bracket onto the
heat shield using the provided hardware
install the heat shield onto the rubber
mounted studs and secure with the
provided hardware
install the provided 90 degree vent
fitting into the K&N intake tube install
the provided hump hose onto the filter
adapter and secure with the provided
hose clamp
then install the K&N intake tube and
secure with the provided hose clamps
install the provided crankcase vent hose
onto the 90 degree vent fitting and a
valve cover port install the K&N fresh
air intake scoop and secure to the heat
shield and course support with the
provided hardware
install the K&N air filter and secure
with the provided hose clamp
reinstall the engine cover reconnect the
vehicles negative battery cable
double check to make sure everything is
tight and properly positioned before
starting the vehicle it will be
necessary for all K&N High Flow air
intake systems to be checked
periodically for realignment clearance
and tightening of all connections
failure to follow the above instructions
or proper maintenance may void warranty
K&N makes products for nearly every
vehicle on the road
the K&N website allows you to search
products by vehicle or dimension
download installation instructions view
dyno charts showing estimated horsepower
gains for this product and view product
details for information on where to buy
K&N products go to KN filters Comm